README.md, before:

# Config
Set configuration locally and globally

``` bash
git config --global user.name "me"
git config --global user.email "me@gmail.com"

git config --global core.editor vim

git config --global help.autocorrect=1


# to set locally just remove "--global" keyword
git config --list

cat .git/config
```

# Status 
Show git status

``` bash
git status
```

# Add 

``` bash
git add filename.txt
git add -u  # add all updated file to staging area
git add -A  # add ALL file including untracked files to staging area

```

# Commit

``` bash
git commit
git commit -m "comment description here"
git commit -am "comment description here" # git add to updated file and commit with comment
```

``` bash
# commit yang sedang di edit ke branch baru
# https://stackoverflow.com/questions/14655816/how-to-commit-changes-to-a-new-branch/50177571

$ git checkout -b your-new-branch
$ git add <files>
$ git commit -m <message>
``` 

# Diff 
``` bash
git diff aaaaaa..bbbbbb
git diff HEAD~1..HEAD

git diff 34f47ee..3228b37 -- {FileName} # compare specified file between to specific commits
```

# Difftool 
``` bash
git difftool file.m  #diff the local file.m against the checked-in version

git difftool some-feature-branch file.m  # diff the local file.m against the version in some-feature-branch


git difftool Build-54..Build-55 file.m  # diff the file.m from the Build-54 tag to the Build-55 tag

git diff 34f47ee..3228b37 -- {FileName} # compare specified file between to specific commits using difftool
```

#   Log  

``` bash
git log
git log --oneline
git log --oneline | wc -l
git log --oneline --graph

git log master # show log of branch master
git log origin/master # show log on remote origin branch master

git shortlog --summary --numbered --email


git log --all --graph --oneline --decorate
git log --branches --tags --remotes --graph --oneline --decorate

#To search the commit log (across all branches) for the given text:
git log --all --grep='Build 0051'

# in case your commit is dangling and not connected to history at all, you can search the reflog itself with the -g flag (short for --walk-reflogs:
git log -g --grep='Build 0051'
```

# RefLog 
``` bash
git reflog  # show all log where HEAD was used to referenced.
```


# Show 
``` bash
git show HEAD
git show HEAD~1
git show xxxxxx(hash number)

git show --pretty --name-status 29c2770b  # show list of changes with their status
git show --pretty --name-only 29c2770b # show list of changes without their status
```

# Checkout 
``` bash
git checkout filename.txt # pull back to HEAD (undo). Can be applied to revert changes

git checkout -- filename # pull back one file (undo)

git checkout abcde file/to/restore # Undo a file to specific commit. Assuming the commit you want is abcde

git checkout "branch_name" # switch working copy to branch "branch_name"

git fetch && git checkout "branch_name" # fetch and switch branch

git checkout tags/{Tag_Name}
```

# Reset 
``` bash
git reset --hard HEAD~1 # reset working copy back to HEAD and remove all changes and undo multiple changes.
git reset --soft HEAD~1 # reset HEAD state to HEAD~1
                          and put all changes previous HEAD to staging area of new HEAD (HEAD~1)


git reset # can be used to undo command : $ git add .
```

# Clean  
``` bash
git clean
git clean -f # clean up working copy and discards any changes in current working copy

```

#  Git Ignore 
``` bash
touch .gitignore
    # /Logs
    # /Log/*.txt
```

# Remote
``` bash
git remote
git remote -v # show git remote url

git remote add origin "url://...." # add remote origin url
git remote rm origin # remove remote origin
```

# Clone 
``` bash
git clone "url://....""
```

# Fetch 
``` bash
git fetch # pull from remote origin.
git fetch origin # pull from remote origin
```

# Pull 
``` bash
git pull # pull from remote origin.
         # It's also a short cut of : $ git fetch; git merge origin/master

git pull origin master # pull from remote origin of branch master

git pull appprojecttemplate master # pull from remote appprojecttemplate of branch master
```

#  Branch
``` bash 
git branch # show branch local
git branch -r # show all branch in remote
git branch -a # show all branch in local

git branch --set-upstream master origin/master # to make correspondence between local master to origin master.

git branch "branch_name" # create local branch
git branch "branch_name" 974b56a # *) create local branch from particular commit of hashing 974b56a
                                    *) if commit of hashing 974b56a is hash of commit that already deleted,
                                       this command will restore the deleted commit and create new branch named "branch_name"

git branch "branch_name" "tag_name" # create branch called "branch_name" based on "tag_name" tag.

git branch -m "branch_name_old" "branch_name_new" # move (rename)  branch_name_old to branch_name_new

git branch -d "branch_name" # delete "branch_name" branch.
git branch -D "branch_name" # delete "branch_name" branch (force delete). This is usually happen to delete branch that has not been merged to master yet.

```
NOTE :
*) --set-upstream  : is upstream tracking branch which means what remote branch does local branch mirror to.

*) brach basically is simply label shown hashed of individual commit

#  tag 
``` bash
git tag => show list of tag available
git tag "tag_name" => add tag with name "tag_name"
git tag -a "tag_name" => add tag with name "tag_name" and add message to it.
git tag -s "tag_name" => add tag with name "tag_name", add message to it and signed the tag with user identity RSA
git tag -v "tag_name" => verified tag
```

NOTE :
1. http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1457103/how-is-a-tag-different-from-a-branch-which-should-i-use-here
A tag represents a version of a particular branch at a moment in time. A branch represents a separate thread of development that may run concurrently with other development efforts on the same code base. Changes to a branch may eventually be merged back into another branch to unify them.

2. Big difference between branch and tag :
    <br/>a. Branch will follow the commit. As we add commit on that branch, the branch will move along
    <br/>
    <br/>b. Tag will stay on the commit. In other word, "tag" is just a friendly name of the shown hash.

# Push 

``` bash
git push # push local commit changes to remote origin.

git push --set-upstream origin master # to make correspondence between local master to origin and create master branch in origin.

git push --tags # push local tags from local to remote origin. By default git does not push tags.

git push --all # push all changes, branches to remote origin.
git push --all -u
    # *) -u, --set-upstream
    #      For every branch that is up to date or successfully pushed, add upstream (tracking) reference,
    # *) git push --all won't push your tags, only your branches.


git push --tags # push all tags

git push origin "branch_name" # push changes and branch_name to remote origin.
                              # Other branches not pushed if any.

git push origin "branch_name_local":"branch_name_remote"
      # *) would push branch_name_local in local as branch_name_remote in remote origin.
      # *) If branch_name_local is empty, it would delete remote branch named branch_name_remote
```
# Stash 

stash is storing pending changes (in form of stack) temporarily before committed.

``` bash
git stash  # put pending changes state into stash
git stash list # show pending changes that are stored in stash

git stash apply # apply first item of pending changes store in stash to files

git stash pop   # apply first item of pending changes store in stash to files and remove it from stash list

git stash drop # remove/delete first element on index 0 of stash

git stash branch "branch_name_new" # create new branch and
                                   # apply first element of stash on the new branch
```
### NOTE :

*) New file(s) that are untracked (not add to git yet), can not be added to stash


**CASE**
<br/>commit changes of one brach to another branch

``` bash
$ git stash
$ git checkout other-branch
$ git stash pop

#maybe need git mergetool
$ git mergetool

$ git add .
$ git commit -m "...."
$ git push

$ git checkout original-branch
$ git stash pop

# if want to reset
$ git reset --hard
```

# Merge  
``` bash
git merge "branch_name" # merge branch_name to master

git mergetool # open git merge tool to resolve merge conflicts

```

### NOTE :
before merging branch to master, ensure switch to master current work copy first.


# Rebase 
"rebase" will move the entire feature branch to begin on the tip of the master branch, effectively incorporating all of the new commits in master. But, instead of using a merge commit, rebasing re-writes the project history by creating brand new commits for each commit in the original branch.


``` bash
          A---B---C feature
         /
   D---E---F---G master
   ```

``` bash
git checkout feature;
git rebase master
```

would be:

``` bash

            A'--B'--C' feature
            /
D---E---F---G master


```

``` bash
# *) the two command above will move entire feature branch to begin on the tip of the master branch.
# *) on rebasing process sometime we still need call :

   git mergetool # to solve conflict if any, just like we do on merge command.

git rebase --continue | --skip | --abort | --edit-todo
```

# cherry-pick 

``` bash
git cherry-pick 5904c36 # just pick one commit of hash 5904c36 and apply to current HEAD of branch
```

# Show
``` bash
# show all file committed.
git show --name-only deba979


```


#   Import Code from Other branch 

``` bash
#add remote url named REMOTE.TEMPLATE
git remote add REMOTE.TEMPLATE http://gitserver/repo/app.project.template.git

# fetch from REMOTE.TEMPLATE remote url
git fetch REMOTE.TEMPLATE

#checkout REMOTE.TEMPLATE/master and create a new branch called TEMPLATE
git checkout -b TEMPLATE REMOTE.TEMPLATE/master

#switch back to master branch
git checkout master

# merge TEMPLATE brach to master branch
git merge TEMPLATE

# commit changes
git commit

# remove REMOTE.TEMPLATE remote address
git remote rm REMOTE.TEMPLATE

# remove template branch. It is useful to get rid of the extra branch before pushing
git branch -d TEMPLATE

# push to remote origin/master
git push

``` 
### References:
1. http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1683531/how-to-import-existing-git-repository-into-another


#   CASES 

### Steps excluding files and adding to gitignore for the files that already in git

 
1. tambahkan file atau folder atau extension ke .gitignore
2. jalankan 
    ```bash 
    git rm --cached XXXX. 
    ```

   Contoh :
   ```bash 
   git rm --cached src/directories/Database/*
   git rm --cached -rf src/directories/.idea
    ```

3. maka file2 tsb akan masuk ke untracked. 
4. jalankan git add .
5. commit changes pada .gitignore
6. push
7. coba edit file yg diexclude
8. <code> git status </code>
9. seharusnya file yg diexclude tsb tidak masuk dalam stage area

```

Commit message:

add note for clone specific branch

README.md, after:

# Config
Set configuration locally and globally

``` bash
git config --global user.name "me"
git config --global user.email "me@gmail.com"

git config --global core.editor vim

git config --global help.autocorrect=1


# to set locally just remove "--global" keyword
git config --list

cat .git/config
```

# Status 
Show git status

``` bash
git status
```

# Add 

``` bash
git add filename.txt
git add -u  # add all updated file to staging area
git add -A  # add ALL file including untracked files to staging area

```

# Commit

``` bash
git commit
git commit -m "comment description here"
git commit -am "comment description here" # git add to updated file and commit with comment
```

``` bash
# commit yang sedang di edit ke branch baru
# https://stackoverflow.com/questions/14655816/how-to-commit-changes-to-a-new-branch/50177571

$ git checkout -b your-new-branch
$ git add <files>
$ git commit -m <message>
``` 

# Diff 
``` bash
git diff aaaaaa..bbbbbb
git diff HEAD~1..HEAD

git diff 34f47ee..3228b37 -- {FileName} # compare specified file between to specific commits
```

# Difftool 
``` bash
git difftool file.m  #diff the local file.m against the checked-in version

git difftool some-feature-branch file.m  # diff the local file.m against the version in some-feature-branch


git difftool Build-54..Build-55 file.m  # diff the file.m from the Build-54 tag to the Build-55 tag

git diff 34f47ee..3228b37 -- {FileName} # compare specified file between to specific commits using difftool
```

#   Log  

``` bash
git log
git log --oneline
git log --oneline | wc -l
git log --oneline --graph

git log master # show log of branch master
git log origin/master # show log on remote origin branch master

git shortlog --summary --numbered --email


git log --all --graph --oneline --decorate
git log --branches --tags --remotes --graph --oneline --decorate

#To search the commit log (across all branches) for the given text:
git log --all --grep='Build 0051'

# in case your commit is dangling and not connected to history at all, you can search the reflog itself with the -g flag (short for --walk-reflogs:
git log -g --grep='Build 0051'
```

# RefLog 
``` bash
git reflog  # show all log where HEAD was used to referenced.
```


# Show 
``` bash
git show HEAD
git show HEAD~1
git show xxxxxx(hash number)

git show --pretty --name-status 29c2770b  # show list of changes with their status
git show --pretty --name-only 29c2770b # show list of changes without their status
```

# Checkout 
``` bash
git checkout filename.txt # pull back to HEAD (undo). Can be applied to revert changes

git checkout -- filename # pull back one file (undo)

git checkout abcde file/to/restore # Undo a file to specific commit. Assuming the commit you want is abcde

git checkout "branch_name" # switch working copy to branch "branch_name"

git fetch && git checkout "branch_name" # fetch and switch branch

git checkout tags/{Tag_Name}
```

# Reset 
``` bash
git reset --hard HEAD~1 # reset working copy back to HEAD and remove all changes and undo multiple changes.
git reset --soft HEAD~1 # reset HEAD state to HEAD~1
                          and put all changes previous HEAD to staging area of new HEAD (HEAD~1)


git reset # can be used to undo command : $ git add .
```

# Clean  
``` bash
git clean
git clean -f # clean up working copy and discards any changes in current working copy

```

#  Git Ignore 
``` bash
touch .gitignore
    # /Logs
    # /Log/*.txt
```

# Remote
``` bash
git remote
git remote -v # show git remote url

git remote add origin "url://...." # add remote origin url
git remote rm origin # remove remote origin

# show all detail info for origin: url, branches etc
git remote show origin
```

# Clone 
``` bash
git clone "url://....""
```

## Option 1
Option 1
With this, you fetch all the branches in the repository, checkout to the one you specified, and the specific branch becomes the configured local branch for git push and git pull . 

But you still fetched all files from each branch.
``` bash
git clone "url://...."" --branch BRANCH_NAME
git clone "url://...."" -b BRANCH_NAME
```

## Option 2
This performs the same action as option one, except that the --single-branch option was introduced in Git version 1.7.10 and later. It allows you to only fetch files from the specified branch without fetching other branches.

``` bash
git clone "url://...."" --branch BRANCH_NAME --single-branch
git clone "url://...."" -b BRANCH_NAME --single-branch

# To check, show all detail info for origin: url, branches etc
git remote show origin
```

# Fetch 
``` bash
git fetch # pull from remote origin.
git fetch origin # pull from remote origin
```

# Pull 
``` bash
git pull # pull from remote origin.
         # It's also a short cut of : $ git fetch; git merge origin/master

git pull origin master # pull from remote origin of branch master

git pull appprojecttemplate master # pull from remote appprojecttemplate of branch master
```

#  Branch
``` bash 
git branch # show branch local
git branch -r # show all branch in remote
git branch -a # show all branch in local

git branch --set-upstream master origin/master # to make correspondence between local master to origin master.

git branch "branch_name" # create local branch
git branch "branch_name" 974b56a # *) create local branch from particular commit of hashing 974b56a
                                    *) if commit of hashing 974b56a is hash of commit that already deleted,
                                       this command will restore the deleted commit and create new branch named "branch_name"

git branch "branch_name" "tag_name" # create branch called "branch_name" based on "tag_name" tag.

git branch -m "branch_name_old" "branch_name_new" # move (rename)  branch_name_old to branch_name_new

git branch -d "branch_name" # delete "branch_name" branch.
git branch -D "branch_name" # delete "branch_name" branch (force delete). This is usually happen to delete branch that has not been merged to master yet.

```
NOTE :
*) --set-upstream  : is upstream tracking branch which means what remote branch does local branch mirror to.

*) brach basically is simply label shown hashed of individual commit

#  tag 
``` bash
git tag => show list of tag available
git tag "tag_name" => add tag with name "tag_name"
git tag -a "tag_name" => add tag with name "tag_name" and add message to it.
git tag -s "tag_name" => add tag with name "tag_name", add message to it and signed the tag with user identity RSA
git tag -v "tag_name" => verified tag
```

NOTE :
1. http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1457103/how-is-a-tag-different-from-a-branch-which-should-i-use-here
A tag represents a version of a particular branch at a moment in time. A branch represents a separate thread of development that may run concurrently with other development efforts on the same code base. Changes to a branch may eventually be merged back into another branch to unify them.

2. Big difference between branch and tag :
    <br/>a. Branch will follow the commit. As we add commit on that branch, the branch will move along
    <br/>
    <br/>b. Tag will stay on the commit. In other word, "tag" is just a friendly name of the shown hash.

# Push 

``` bash
git push # push local commit changes to remote origin.

git push --set-upstream origin master # to make correspondence between local master to origin and create master branch in origin.

git push --tags # push local tags from local to remote origin. By default git does not push tags.

git push --all # push all changes, branches to remote origin.
git push --all -u
    # *) -u, --set-upstream
    #      For every branch that is up to date or successfully pushed, add upstream (tracking) reference,
    # *) git push --all won't push your tags, only your branches.


git push --tags # push all tags

git push origin "branch_name" # push changes and branch_name to remote origin.
                              # Other branches not pushed if any.

git push origin "branch_name_local":"branch_name_remote"
      # *) would push branch_name_local in local as branch_name_remote in remote origin.
      # *) If branch_name_local is empty, it would delete remote branch named branch_name_remote
```
# Stash 

stash is storing pending changes (in form of stack) temporarily before committed.

``` bash
git stash  # put pending changes state into stash
git stash list # show pending changes that are stored in stash

git stash apply # apply first item of pending changes store in stash to files

git stash pop   # apply first item of pending changes store in stash to files and remove it from stash list

git stash drop # remove/delete first element on index 0 of stash

git stash branch "branch_name_new" # create new branch and
                                   # apply first element of stash on the new branch
```
### NOTE :

*) New file(s) that are untracked (not add to git yet), can not be added to stash


**CASE**
<br/>commit changes of one brach to another branch

``` bash
$ git stash
$ git checkout other-branch
$ git stash pop

#maybe need git mergetool
$ git mergetool

$ git add .
$ git commit -m "...."
$ git push

$ git checkout original-branch
$ git stash pop

# if want to reset
$ git reset --hard
```

# Merge  
``` bash
git merge "branch_name" # merge branch_name to master

git mergetool # open git merge tool to resolve merge conflicts

```

### NOTE :
before merging branch to master, ensure switch to master current work copy first.


# Rebase 
"rebase" will move the entire feature branch to begin on the tip of the master branch, effectively incorporating all of the new commits in master. But, instead of using a merge commit, rebasing re-writes the project history by creating brand new commits for each commit in the original branch.


``` bash
          A---B---C feature
         /
   D---E---F---G master
   ```

``` bash
git checkout feature;
git rebase master
```

would be:

``` bash

            A'--B'--C' feature
            /
D---E---F---G master


```

``` bash
# *) the two command above will move entire feature branch to begin on the tip of the master branch.
# *) on rebasing process sometime we still need call :

   git mergetool # to solve conflict if any, just like we do on merge command.

git rebase --continue | --skip | --abort | --edit-todo
```

# cherry-pick 

``` bash
git cherry-pick 5904c36 # just pick one commit of hash 5904c36 and apply to current HEAD of branch
```

# Show
``` bash
# show all file committed.
git show --name-only deba979


```


#   Import Code from Other branch 

``` bash
#add remote url named REMOTE.TEMPLATE
git remote add REMOTE.TEMPLATE http://gitserver/repo/app.project.template.git

# fetch from REMOTE.TEMPLATE remote url
git fetch REMOTE.TEMPLATE

#checkout REMOTE.TEMPLATE/master and create a new branch called TEMPLATE
git checkout -b TEMPLATE REMOTE.TEMPLATE/master

#switch back to master branch
git checkout master

# merge TEMPLATE brach to master branch
git merge TEMPLATE

# commit changes
git commit

# remove REMOTE.TEMPLATE remote address
git remote rm REMOTE.TEMPLATE

# remove template branch. It is useful to get rid of the extra branch before pushing
git branch -d TEMPLATE

# push to remote origin/master
git push

``` 
### References:
1. http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1683531/how-to-import-existing-git-repository-into-another


#   CASES 

### Steps excluding files and adding to gitignore for the files that already in git

 
1. tambahkan file atau folder atau extension ke .gitignore
2. jalankan 
    ```bash 
    git rm --cached XXXX. 
    ```

   Contoh :
   ```bash 
   git rm --cached src/directories/Database/*
   git rm --cached -rf src/directories/.idea
    ```

3. maka file2 tsb akan masuk ke untracked. 
4. jalankan git add .
5. commit changes pada .gitignore
6. push
7. coba edit file yg diexclude
8. <code> git status </code>
9. seharusnya file yg diexclude tsb tidak masuk dalam stage area

```
